---
layout: post
title:  "52 Posts in 2014"
date:   2014-01-01 21:42:00
blurb: I'm writing 52 posts in 2014. Read the post to find out why.
tags: self improvement
---

I'm not usually big on making new years resolutions. When I want to form a new habit, I typically start a new habit calendar. But I've been unsuccessful in making myself regularly write to this site.

So with the start of 2014, I'm going to form my goal around the new calendar
year. I’m going to write at least one post for each week of this year. That means I will have to write 52 posts for the new year. For tracking this on a habit calendar, I’m going to cross off the monday for every week I post an entry to this site.

Because I’m basing my tracking on Mondays, I can’t start until next week. Monday January 6th is the first Monday in 2014. That means that this post doesn't count towards my 52 posts.

I’m doing this as an effort to improve myself. There are a lot of things that doing this will help improve.

Obviously, writing 52 posts should help me become a better writer. At least better than I am now. And I’ve read that learning to write better also improves the ability to think more clearly.

I think it will also help me learn to ship more and ship faster. Blog posts aren't that complex, but shipping 52 weekly posts isn't a small feat. And starting a post isn’t that hard - I have a ton of have written posts. The problem has been finishing and publishing those posts.

I have also found that writing helps me learn topics better. Instead of just reading about and trying new things, writing as well makes you think about what was just learned. This usually helps me later explain the thing.

Finally, it will help me share knowledge. This really doesn’t help with my personal improvement, but I think this is an important part of working on the web. The web has gotten this far because of the wealth of information people share about it. I really should be helping spread that knowledge any way I can.

So over the next 52 weeks, I plan on mostly writing about programming and productivity. I'll probably focus my programming discussions on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. But I'll probably dive into the occasional php, c#, and other programming related topics. In the productivity side, I’ll provide some tools and tips that I use to keep myself productive. I’m sure there will be plenty of stuff for me to write about this year.
