has windows phone quietly taken the lead in mobile innovation?

I've been toting around an iPhone 4 for over two years now. Since I crossed over
that 2-year thresshold and my phone has slowly started to perform worse, I've
been doing a lot of consideration into what my next phone should be. A lot of
phones have come and gone since then. 
Based on what I've been seeing lately, it looks like Windows is starting to take
over.

Before I get too depe into discussion, I want to make sure everyone is aware I
am not a windows fanboy. I use a windows machine at work, but typically have one
or more linux VMs running at all times. I use mostly mac products at home. I
have a air, and iphone, and an ipad.

first is apple. what is apple doing to innovate the mobile landscape? to be
honest, i'm not sure if i've seen anything terribly innovative coming out of
their camp lately. their new UI has some bounce and a hologram, but is there
really much else there? the apps are going to 'look' different, but is there any
new functionality that is truly innovative? siri has a new voice. but, i guess,
at least it has a voice. have any of their apps really gotten a change? anything
that would make me take them out of my 'can't delete' folder on the last page of
my home screen? and should i even mention icloud? are they going to be renaming
it soon?

andoid phones have been very interesting lately. samsung is connecting the
phones to a new smart watch. by the end of the year, samsung might have an
android device in ever possible screen size. motox's focus on battery life and
performance is a great move, and I might get one just for that battery
performance. also, google has been really working to
improve the voice capabilities and google now. their apps have also been getting
a lot of love. and they are the best when it comes to the cloud. chromecast
looks to be closing the bridge in the living room. but one red x against them is
the whole privacy concerns. is it really as big of a deal as its been made out
to be. i don't know, but it has made me consider buying further into their
ecosystem by getting an android phone.

I think firefox OS is an ineresting product. not only is it attacking a
lower-end market, but, as a web developer, I love their concept of web-base
apps. But, by not being available in the US, at least until 2014, means that I'm
not waiting that long.

ubuntu phone is also interesting -- i'd love to have the ability to hook my
phone up to any spare monitors and keyboards I come across. But like firefox os, its not even
going to be built until 2014, so it isn't worth talking about something that
isn't even available to be used.

then there is windows phone 8. I wrote off windows a long time ago. Stopped
paying attention to it. And thought there was no way i'd buy a windows phone.
But then things started to change. first are the games. i don't play many games
these days, but the windows phone games look awesome. and it's integration with
xbox live, and potential other future integrations with xbox really make me
think it will be an option for anyone that has an xbox. the live tiles have
always looked slick, though I can't say how useful they are. the lumia 1020's
cameria really does look nice. throughout the years, the iphone's camera really
hasn't been that spectacular. i take a lot of photos with my phone, it might be
time to get some nice onces. 

some downfalls, speach, app library


